ChatGpt has a big problem. ChatGpt is
burning through billions of dollars just
to keep 800 million users chatting for
free. Even with roughly 20 million
paying users, it's still not profitable.
So, OpenAI's next move is turning those
chats into a trillion dollar shopping
gateway. I'm Neil Patel, founder of NP
Digital, an awardwinning ad agency. And
in this video, I'll show you how Chad
GBT is rolling out instant checkout with
Etsy and Shopify, hiring the masterminds
behind Facebook and Instacart's ad
empire, and why this creates a once in a
decade chance for brands to cash in
before the crowd shows up.
[Music]
Most people think AI search is still
years away from eating into Google's
market share, but Chad GBT is already
redirecting shoppers away from
traditional search engines. And the
brands who realize this early are
printing money. Here's what's happening
right now. According to Similar Web,
ChatGBT drives 20% of Walmart's referral
traffic. Over 20% of Etsy's and nearly
15% of Targets. Again, this is referral
traffic, not total traffic. And 10% of
ebase. These aren't projections. This is
live traffic data from September 2025.
And there's one massive player
completely missing from this list.
Amazon. Amazon block chat GPT's crawler
entirely. They updated their robots.txt
file to tell AI bots to stay out. The
result, the referral traffic from Chad
GBT dropped from 18% month overmonth to
under 3%. That means 600 million Amazon
products are now invisible to Chad GBT.
while their competitors are getting free
discovery every single day. Why would
Amazon do this? Because they see the
writing on the wall. If AI becomes the
new search bar, Amazon's $56 billion
advertising business crumbles overnight.
Every time someone asked Chad GBT, "Best
wireless headphones under $150." They're
seeing Walmart, Target, eBay, everyone
but Amazon. This is the first time in 20
years that Amazon isn't the default
answer for product searches, and it's
creating the biggest opportunity for
brands and retailers since Google
invented search ads. If you sell
products online, your competitors are
already showing up in chat GBT results
while you're invisible. The window to
get ahead of this is closing fast.
Within 12 to 18 months, this won't be an
advantage. It'll be the new normal.
[Music]
But driving traffic is one thing. What
OpenAI just launched takes it from
discovery to transaction in a single
conversation and it could make Chad GBT
the fastest growing marketplace in
history. Open AAI launched instant
checkout powered by something called the
Aenta commerce protocol that they built
with Stripe. US users can now buy from
Etsy sellers directly inside the chat.
No links, no tabs, just a in chat
payment experience. and over 1 million
Shopify merchants. Brands like Glossier,
Skiims, Spanx, Fiori are coming next.
The stock market responded immediately.
Etsy stock jumped 16% the day it was
announced. Shopify rose 6%. But here's a
part that was overlooked. This isn't
just a chat GBT feature. The Aentic
commerce protocol is open source. That
means any AI assistant could adopt it.
Claw, Gemini, Perplexi, even Tik Tok's
AI. They could all use the same rails to
let users shop within their chat bots.
For the first time in two decades, the
foundation of e-commerce could
fundamentally shift. Google and Amazon's
grip on online shopping, the idea that
you start on their platforms, that
assumption is being challenged right
now. And here's what you need to
understand. Chat GBT need structured
detailed data to recommend your
products. The brands feeding the richest
information are the ones getting
surfaced. Some brands are already
providing more details to chat GPT than
they publish on their own websites
because they know this is where the
attention is moving. If you're not
optimizing your product feeds right now,
whether it's clean descriptions, updated
pricing, even structured availability
data, you're letting your competitors
own this new channel while you're stuck
playing the old Google SEO game.
Now, here's where it gets really
interesting. Open AAI publicly said they
have no plans for ads back in December
2024. Then four months later, internal
documents leaked showing that they're
projecting 25 billion in ad revenue by
2029. So what changed? Sam Alman, Open
AS CEO, called ads uniquely unsettling.
He said they were a last resort and that
he kind of hates ads. He even said he
likes that people pay for chat GBT
because it means the answers they're
getting are not influenced by
advertisers. But here's a reality. Open
AAI expects to generate 12.7 billion in
revenue this year. That's triple last
year's 3.7 billion. Sounds impressive,
right? Except they're still not a cash
flow positive business. They won't be
until 2029. Only 20 million out of
roughly 800 million users are paying for
subscriptions. That's less than 3%. And
Seth Alman recently admitted on social
media, insane thing. We are currently
losing money on OpenAI Pro
subscriptions. People use it so much
more than we expected. That's a CEO of a
$500 billion company admitting they're
losing money on their premium product.
The math doesn't work. And when the math
doesn't work at this scale, something
has to change fast. Internal documents
from April 2025 show that Open AI is
planning for 1 billion in free user
monetization starting in 2026. That
grows to 25 billion by 2029. And there's
only one way to monetize a 100 million
free users at that scale. It's
advertising. And Open AI isn't just
planning it. They're actively building
it right now. Fiji Sumo, who spent over
a decade at Meta, where she built
Facebook ads empire and ran monetization
for the entire Facebook app, just got
hired as OpenAI's chief of applications.
Before that, she was the CEO of
Instacart, where she turned the platform
into a major retail advertising
business. Now, she's at OpenAI. She's
hiring an ads chief to build full
infrastructure underneath her. Open AAI
is also hiring growth paid marketing
platform engineers to build campaign
management tools, ad platform
integration, and real-time attribution
systems. These aren't vague plans. They
are live job postings being filled right
now. The brands that master
conversational advertising in the next
12 months will have the same advantage
early Facebook advertisers had in 2007
and 2008. This isn't just another ad
channel. It's a completely new format
where ads are embedded into the answer
itself, not plastered next to it.
[Music]
The rules of organic traffic generation
are completely different now. SEO taught
you to optimize for Google's algorithm.
You learn to rank for keywords like best
laptop or affordable project management
software. But AI search works
differently. It's not about keywords
anymore. It's about context and topics.
Traditional search looks like this. Best
wireless earbuds. Short, simple, keyword
focus. A search looks like this. I'm a
runner who sweats a lot, needs something
waterproof that stays in during sprints,
doesn't want to spend more than $120,
and I've had bad experiences with ear
pain from silicone tips. What are my
best options for headphones? See the
difference? The second query gives AI
your use case, your pain points, your
budget, and your past experiences.
Targeting moves from keywords to full
conversational context. Around 2% of all
chat GBT queries involve shopping.
That's 50 million shopping queries per
day. With 2.5 billion total prompts
flowing through ChatGBT daily, even a
small slice translates into a massive
shopping intent. But here's a shift.
ChatGBT doesn't just rank websites like
Google used to. It recommends answers.
It tells you what it thinks is the best
with citations to back it up. If AI
doesn't trust your content enough to
site it, you're invisible. If it doesn't
trust you, you're not getting traffic,
you're not getting endorsement, and
you're losing out on revenue. This
creates a new game. You're not competing
for rankings anymore. You're competing
for citation credibility. Marketers are
calling this AIO, GEO, or even AI SEO or
AI optimization. It's the successor to
SEO. It's very similar in many ways, but
of course, there are some differences.
And here's the data that proves why this
matters. Our study of 300 businesses
across different industries found that
Chad GBT doesn't just dominate in
volume, it dominates in value. Chad GBT
drives 87% of AI traffic and 82% of
AIdriven sales. Meanwhile, all the other
platforms combined, Copilot, Plexi,
Gemini, Claude, account for less than
20% of actual revenue. I want you to
start creating content that AI can
confidently site. That means structured
data, clear problem solution frameworks,
authoritative sources. The brands
winning right now are publishing
detailed product feeds, structured
cataloges with rich descriptions,
updated prices, real-time availability.
So, Chad GBT has full context. when
deciding what to recommend.
[Music]
Now, let me show you the exact road map
on how to drive traffic and sales with
Chat GBT because there are three clear
phases. Phase one, something is
happening right now from late 2025
through early 2026. This is the train
the models phase right now before Chad
GPT and Google's AI systems fully
monetized. You're not buying placement
yet. your teaching systems why you're
worth recommending. Make your brand
machine readable. That means rewriting
your site, your bios, your product pages
for semantic clarity. What you solve,
why you're trusted. Use schema markup,
FAQ schema, how-to schema, product
schema, even review schema. Build
authority signals that feed AI trust
models. Earn press coverage. Get on
podcasts. You want to build citations,
get mentioned on Wikipedia, Forbes,
Techrunch, anywhere AI is already
trusting because AI models weigh those
sources heavily when deciding who to
site. Create content that AI can
confidently quote, not just listicicals.
End up explainer videos, comparisons,
frameworks. Use language like, "If
you're a small business owner trying to
manage customer relationships without a
big budget, here's what to consider."
That trains the AI's reasoning layer.
You're not marketing to people yet.
You're marketing to the machine that
will market you later. Phase 2 starts in
2026. This is as chat GPT ads and Google
AI overviews goes mainstream globally.
Users will begin to trust AI assistants
for purchase decisions the way they once
trusted search results. This is when you
test early ad formats, run experiments
in conversational placements. For
example, focus creative on problem
solution phrasing, not slogans, and test
ad copy that reads like advice. For
small teams under $50 a month, here's
what works. Start tracking AI visibility
metrics. Tools will emerge that measure
chat GBT mentions and AI overview
inclusion rates and citation frequency.
For example, you can do a lot of this
with Uber suggest for free. These become
your new KPIs alongside traditional
search rankings. This phase is about
blending organic trust with paid
amplification. You're building on the
authority you established in phase one.
now with the option to pay for
guaranteed placement. Before I go into
phase three, if you need help making
sure your business is showing up on
ChatGpt and all the other LLMs and
making sure that you're generating the
revenue over your competition, hit us up
at NP Digital. This is what we
specialize in. Now, let's dive into
phase three. This arrives between 2026
and 2028. By then, Open AI will have its
own ads manager, and Google's AI mode,
which is already taking shape through a
campaign type called AI Max, will be
fully fused into search. Advertising
won't interrupt conversations, it'll
complete them. You'll buy answer slots
and recommended placements. You'll
measure success not in clicks, but in
return on answered questions. You'll run
memoryaware retargeting campaigns. Last
time we talked, you said you were hiring
a designer. Here's a tool that helps
teams collaborate. You'll do API level
sponsorships. You'll partner with AI
powered SAS tools to become the
recommended solution when users ask for
help inside Mailchimp or even Slack. At
this stage, ads aren't external
interruptions anymore. They're embedded
insights. They're the answer.
[Music]
But here's a paradox for tech platforms
powered by ad. The same ads that could
save Open AI financially might destroy
the user experience that made it popular
in the first place. Users distrust ads
and a lot of people just scroll past
these sponsored ads that dominate a lot
of web pages. If Chat GPT's ads feel
manipulative, the whole system
collapses. If they're too obvious, they
break the conversational flow. Perplexes
AI recently announced they're
introducing ads, and they were
completely transparent about it. They
said subscriptions alone don't generate
enough revenue to sustain our publisher
program and growth. Advertising is the
best way to ensure a steady and scalable
revenue stream. But here's what they're
doing differently. They're focusing on
sponsored followup questions that are
still AI generated. Sponsors pay for the
products to be considered in the
recommendation, but they don't control
the answer itself. The AI decides what's
best based on context. This is the new
value exchange. You get free access to
incredible powerful AI technology. In
return, you see relevant recommendations
that actually solve your problem. Trust
will be the new currency. If ads feel
genuinely helpful, not pushy, not
manipulative. Users may actually prefer
them to random search results. The user
experience of trust will determine the
ROI more than bid prices or audience
size. That means native contextual
credible first formats. No banners, no
pop-ups, no interruptions, and we'll see
completely new metrics replace clicks.
Things like engagement in a thread. Did
the user expand the sponsor suggestions?
Adoption actions. Did they insert it
into their plan? Memory based
conversations. Did this user eventually
sign up after repeated sponsor nudges
across multiple conversations? That's a
postquick attribution model built into
the conversation itself. The brands that
lead with education, clarity, and
genuine problem solving will dominate
because their message fits naturally
into the conversational context. This
isn't about tricking the system. It's
about being the best answer when someone
asks for help. Here's what matters right
now. Most people won't realize what's
happening until it's too late. And by
then, the cost to show up in these AI
experiences will skyrocket. This is your
window to position your brand early to
start getting cited and build authority.
Even if Chad GPD hasn't officially
launched these new ad features, you can
actually start experimenting with
Google's AI max to get idea of what may
end up happening within search
campaigns. Think of it as training your
content and ads to talk to users the way
AI does, recommending solutions and
earning trust in real time. The brands
learning this now will dominate when
conversational ads become the norm. And
if you want to see how Google's already
responding to Open AI's next move, watch
this video next because understanding
how both sides are evolving will define
who wins in the new era of digital
marketing.